hi everyone welcome to signals and systems course
in this video I am going to explain the laplace transform
as we all know from linear time invariant systems
if the input to an lti system is a complex exponential
the output of the system is the same complex exponential multiplied by a constant
the complex constant h of s is computed as given in the equation
in fourier analysis we only focus on purely imaginary values of s
where s is equal to j omega
when s is equal to j omega the complex constant is obtained by taking the fourier transform of the impulse response
if s is chosen as a general complex number such as sigma plus j omega
then we end up with the generalization of the continuous time fourier transform known as the laplace transform
the laplace transform of a general signal x of t is defined as given in the equation
where the laplace transform is denoted with x of s
if s is purely imaginary or s is equal to j omega we obtain the fourier transform of x of t with the same equation
here it is important to note that the fourier transform equation converges only when x of t is absolutely integrable
there is also a straightforward relationship between the laplace and fourier transforms even when s is not purely imaginary
if we rearrange the laplace transform equation by replacing s with sigma plus j omega
the right side of the equation yields the fourier transform of the signal x of t times a real exponential signal
note that this real exponential signal can be a decaying or growing exponential depending of whether sigma is positive or negative
since the laplace transform is interpreted as the fourier transform of x of t times a real exponential signal
we need to check the convergence of the given fourier transform expression
therefore the laplace transform of the given signal exists if the fourier transform expression given above converges
in other words if x of t times the real exponential signal is absolutely integrable
the values of the complex variable s for which the laplace transform converges is referred to as the region of convergence
in the previous lectures we learned that fourier analysis is extremely important and useful in analyzing signals and systems
however fourier transform can not handle large and important classes of signals and unstable systems
for instance we can not analyze a signal using fourier transform if it is not absolutely integrable since the fourier transform does not converge
the same is true for unstable systems because the impulse response is not absolutely integrable
laplace transform can be viewed as an extension of the fourier transform
laplace transform allows analysis of broader class of signals and systems including unstable systems
now let's look at an example
let x of t be the one sided real exponential signal given in the equation
if a is greater than zero x of t is a decaying exponential signal and the fourier transform converges
note that the fourier transform of x of t is obtained as one over j omega plus a when a is greater than zero
let's compute the laplace transform for the same decaying exponential signal
by using the laplace transform formula and by substituting s with sigma plus j omaga we obtain the highlighted expression
note that this expression is the fourier transform of another real exponential signal
and this fourier transform converges only when the exponential signal is a decaying exponential
in other words sigma plus a is greater than zero or sigma is greater than minus a
since s is equal to sigma plus j omega the laplace transform of the signal x of t is obtained as given in the below equation
this laplace transform equation is valid only when sigma or the real part of s is greater than minus a
note that this condition is referred to as region of convergence of x of s
this figure shows region of convergence plot for the decaying exponential signal
the horizontal axis is the real axis and the vertical axis is the imaginary axis in the s plane
the shaded area shows the region where the laplace transform integral converges
here it is important to note that the j omega axis is inside the roc
which means we can obtain the fourier transform of the signal x of t from its laplace transform by substituting s with j omega
now let's perform the same analyses for the growing exponential signal x of t
here the fourier transform does not converge since the growing exponential violates the absolute integrability condition required for the convergence of fourier transform
in other words the fourier transform of that signal does not exist
let's compute the laplace transform for the same growing exponential signal
again we obtain the highlighted equation by substituting s with sigma plus j omaga
which is the fourier transform of another real exponential signal
this fourier transform converges only when the exponential signal is a decaying exponential
in other words sigma plus a is greater than zero or sigma is greater than minus a
the laplace transform expression for the growing exponential signal is given below which is valid only when the real part of s is greater than minus a
note that we obtained the same expression with the laplace transform of the decaying exponential signal
however the region of convergences are different
this figure shows region of convergence plot for the growing exponential signal
the shaded area shows the region where the laplace transform integral converges
note that different than the roc of decaying exponential signal
the roc does not include the imaginary axis in other words j omega axis
this is a very important observation since the fourier transform does not exist for the growing exponential signal
therefore the roc does not include the j omega axis since the laplace transform integral is not valid when s is equal to j omega
now let's look at another example signal
let x of t be the exponential signal given in the equation
after taking the laplace transform we obtain the highlighted expression
note that this result is valid if the laplace transform integral converges in other words if the real part of s is less than minus a
let's compare the two exponential signals that we have discussed in this video
these two signals resulted in identical expressions as their laplace transforms
however their region of convergences are different
we can distinguish the time domain signals from identical laplace transform expressions using their rocs
therefore specifying both the algebraic expression and the roc is important in the laplace transform
assuming that a is greater than zero we can plot the rocs for these two laplace transforms as given in the figure
let me summarize what we have discussed until now
first fourier transform does not converge for all signals and the absolute integrability condition should hold for the existence of the fourier transform for a given signal
second laplace transform may convergence for some values of s and not for others
the values for which the laplace transform converges are referred to as the region of convergence
the region of convergence is determined by the real part of s
third if j omega axis is inside the roc
the fourier transform exists and can be obtained directly from the laplace transform by substituting s with j omega
fourth if jey omega axis is not inside the roc the fourier transform does not exist for that signal
fifth in specifying the laplace transform of a signal both the algebraic expression and the roc are required since laplace transforms of different signals may result in the same expression
in this video I have explained the laplace transform integral and the region of convergence for the laplace transform
let me know if you have any questions
thank you